module1/questions/1_First_PHP_Server/Q1. Simple_PHP_Server.md, before:

---
marp: true
---

# Q1. Simple_PHP_Server

---

## Question 1

What command do you use to start a PHP server on localhost port 8000?

**Answer:** php -S localhost:8000

---

## Question 2

Write a simple PHP script that displays "Welcome to ASE 230!" on a web page.

**Answer:** 
<?php <br>
// welcome.php <br>
echo "Welcome to ASE 230!"; <br>
?>

---

## Question 3

If port 8000 is already in use, how would you start the PHP server on port 8080 instead?

**Answer:** php -S localhost:8080

---

## Question 4

What are the opening and closing tags for PHP code?

**Answer:** 
<?php → Opening tag: tells the server that PHP code starts here <br>
?> → Closing tag: tells the server that PHP code ends here.

---

## Question 5

Name two ways you can access a PHP server running on localhost:8000.

**Answer:** Open any web browser (Chrome, Firefox, Edge, etc.). Type the URL: http://localhost:8000 
**or** 
Use the curl command in terminal or command prompt, curl http://localhost:8000

---

## Question 6

What is the difference between running `php index.php` and `php -S localhost:8000`?

**Answer:** php index.php - Runs the PHP script directly in the command line. Output is printed in the terminal, not in a browser.

php -S localhost:8000 - Starts a built-in PHP web server on port 8000. You access the PHP scripts through a browser or HTTP client:

---

## Question 7

Which VSCode extension can help you run a PHP server easily?

**Answer:** PHP sever - using brapifra.phpserver when searching in VSCode extensions

---

## Question 8

What PHP function can you use for simple debugging by writing to a log file?

**Answer:** error_log()

---

## Summary

We have 8 questions on this page.

1. How many questions did you answer? (8/8)
2. What percentage of questions did you answer? (100%)
3. List question numbers that you cannot answer: N/A
4. (Optional) Explain why you could not answer these questions.

Commit message:

Update Q1. Simple_PHP_Server.md

module1/questions/1_First_PHP_Server/Q1. Simple_PHP_Server.md, after:

---
marp: true
---

# Q1. Simple_PHP_Server

---

## Question 1

What command do you use to start a PHP server on localhost port 8000?

**Answer:** php -S localhost:8000

---

## Question 2

Write a simple PHP script that displays "Welcome to ASE 230!" on a web page.

**Answer:** 
```php
<?php
// welcome.php
echo "Welcome to ASE 230!";
?>
```
---

## Question 3

If port 8000 is already in use, how would you start the PHP server on port 8080 instead?

**Answer:** php -S localhost:8080

---

## Question 4

What are the opening and closing tags for PHP code?

**Answer:** 
```php
<?php → Opening tag: tells the server that PHP code starts here
?> → Closing tag: tells the server that PHP code ends here.
```

---

## Question 5

Name two ways you can access a PHP server running on localhost:8000.

**Answer:** Open any web browser (Chrome, Firefox, Edge, etc.). Type the URL: http://localhost:8000 
**or** 
Use the curl command in terminal or command prompt, curl http://localhost:8000

---

## Question 6

What is the difference between running `php index.php` and `php -S localhost:8000`?

**Answer:** php index.php - Runs the PHP script directly in the command line. Output is printed in the terminal, not in a browser.

php -S localhost:8000 - Starts a built-in PHP web server on port 8000. You access the PHP scripts through a browser or HTTP client:

---

## Question 7

Which VSCode extension can help you run a PHP server easily?

**Answer:** PHP sever - using brapifra.phpserver when searching in VSCode extensions

---

## Question 8

What PHP function can you use for simple debugging by writing to a log file?

**Answer:** error_log()

---

## Summary

We have 8 questions on this page.

1. How many questions did you answer? (8/8)
2. What percentage of questions did you answer? (100%)
3. List question numbers that you cannot answer: N/A
4. (Optional) Explain why you could not answer these questions.
