---
title: PHP and MySQL Installation
marp: true
html: true
size: 4:3
paginate: true
---
<!-- _class: frontpage -->
<!-- _paginate: skip -->

# Installing PHP

---

<!-- TOC -->
- [Option 1: XAMPP – Easiest Way to Get Started](#option-1-xampp--easiest-way-to-get-started)
- [Option 2: Manual Installation](#option-2-manual-installation)
  - [Recommendation for Windows Users](#recommendation-for-windows-users)
  - [Recommendation for Mac/Linux Users](#recommendation-for-maclinux-users)
- [Windows](#windows)
- [macOS](#macos)
- [Linux (Ubuntu/Debian)](#linux-ubuntudebian)
<!-- /TOC -->

---

## Option 1: XAMPP – Easiest Way to Get Started

- [XAMPP](https://www.apachefriends.org) is an all-in-one package that includes:

  - **PHP**
  - **MySQL (MariaDB)**
  - **Apache**

- Ideal for **beginners** who want to start developing quickly.
- No configuration required – install and run.
- Great for introductory courses and quick setups.

---

## Option 2: Manual Installation

- Learning to install and configure **individual components** (PHP, MySQL, Apache) is essential.
- Develops skills in:

  - Command-line tools
  - Environment configuration
  - System architecture awareness
- Mimics real-world environments such as:

  - Production servers
  - Docker containers
  - Cloud-based deployments

---

### Recommendation for Windows Users

- **Start with XAMPP** for ease and rapid development.
- **Move to manual installation** to gain practical, professional-level experience.
- This progression ensures both **accessibility** and **technical depth** for students.

---

#### Linux is a must for web applications

- **Learn how to use Linux**
  - Most web applications are running on Linux.
  - Windows supports Linux with WSL2.
  - We will use **Docker**, and it uses Linux for web application development.
- **Students are required to use** *Docker* for course project.

---

### Recommendation for Mac/Linux Users

- **Start using manual installation** as it is easy to install PHP/MySQL on Mac/Linux with CLI (command line interface) tools.

---

## Windows

- Download PHP from the official site
- Extract and set the environment path

---

## macOS

- Open Terminal.
- Install Homebrew if not installed:

   ```bash
   /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
   ```

- Brew install PHP
  - `brew install php`

---

## Linux (Ubuntu/Debian)

- Update packages

   ```bash
   sudo apt update
   sudo apt upgrade -y
   ```

- Install PHP

   ```bash
   sudo apt install php -y
   ```
