---
marp: true
---

# Q1. Framework and Laravel Introduction

---

## Question 1

Ready-made foundation, built-in tools, focus on business logic vs low-level plumbing: what explains this idea?

---

## Question 2

It takes hundreds lines of code to implement PHP application, but I need a PHP framework to reduce my coding load. What option should I choose? (What's the name of the framework that we use in this module?)

---

## Question 3

These are main problems with manual PHP development, which is wrong?

1. Repetitive code
2. Manual routing
3. No structure
4. Files in one place

---

## Question 4

This is a list of why Laravel is considered a popular choice among PHP frameworks. Which is wrong?

1. elegant syntax
2. powerful features
3. great documentation
4. large community
5. easy to learn and use

---

## Question 5

This is a list of possible Laravel disadvantages. Which is wrong?

- Learning Curve
- Performance Overhead
- Less Flexibility
- Version Upgrades
- Hosting/Deployment
- Reduced Complexity

---

## Question 6

This is a list what features Laravel provides automatically. Which is wrong?

- Routing
- Database ORM
- Security
- Testing
- API Development
- File Structure
- Document Generation

---

## Question 7

Explain why learning manual PHP first is valuable before moving to frameworks.

---

## Question 8

Some developers argue that frameworks add unnecessary complexity to simple projects. Based on the lecture content, how would you counter this argument?

---

## Summary

We have 8 questions on this page.

1. How many questions did you answer? ( / 8)
2. What percentage of questions did you answer? (  %)
3. List question numbers that you cannot answer:
4. (Optional) Explain why you could not answer these questions.
